Transistors -> ICs -> FPGAs -> LUTs

Section 1 Notes:

	Semiconductor:	A material with a conductivity (ability to conduct electricity) between a conductor and and insulator. A semiconductor
	Material	usually consists of a regular crystal lattice structure that has been doped (a process of adding impurities to the lattice)
			in order to facilitate the flow of electrons. 

			Semicondctors can be lightly or heavily doped, referring to the amount of impurites (dopant atoms) per the amount of
			semiconductor material atoms. Semconductors can be p or n-doped:

				p-type:	The lattice contains free holes in which electrons can fill
				n-type:	The lattice contains free electrons instead of holes

			In semiconductor devices, which can contain many layers of p and n-type materials, p-n junctions (boundaries between 
			p-type and n-type materials) are responsible for the useful behavior of many semiconductor devices, such as the 
			transistor.

	Transistors:	A semiconductor device that can control the current or voltage flow in a circuit. They can also take a low amplitude
			current and amplify it into a larger output. Transistors are usually used as switches with two states, on or off.
			Transistor can be combined to create logic gates, and can be further combined into huge arrays called integrated
			circuits (via miniaturization), which form the foundation of modern technology.

			Frequency of a transistor refers to the amount of times a transistor can switch state per unit time. Modern transistors
			can be measured in gigahertz (billions of switches per second)

			Structure:

			Transistors are usually made of silicon material and consist of three layers, the base, the emitter, and the collector.
			They can be either NPN or PNP:

				PNP:	n-type semiconductor layer between to p-type layers
				NPN:	p-type layer between two n-type layers

			The inner layer is referred to as the control electrode, as a small change in current or voltage at that layer causes
			a large change throughout the device.

				Emitter:	Heavily doped, emits electrons (supplies electrons to other layers)
				Base:		Lightly doped, creates junctions in the transistor, passes carriers from emitter to collector
				Collector:	Moderately doped, collects carriers from the emitter

			Both PNP and NPN transistors have EBC's, however opposite flow.

			Types:

			The two main types of transistors are Bipolar Junction transistors (BJTs) and Field Effect transistors (FETs). 

			BJTs can be either PNP or NPN type. current can flow through BJTs due to electrons and holes. PNP BJTs conduct electricity
			through holes, while NPN BJTs do so through electron flow.

			FETs also have three layers, the source, drain, and gate, analagous to the emitter, base, and collector, but the p-type and
			n-type layers are different. FETs in while layers are coated with metal and oxide layer are called MOSFETs. They conduct the
			flow of electricty through changes in field.

			Other types of transitors are:	Junction Field Effect Transistors (JFETs), Thin Film Transistors (TFTs), Schottkey, diffusion.

	Logic Gates:	Transistors can be combined together to create what are known as logic gates. Most logic gates take to inputs (except NOT)
			and compare them to create a single output, using Boolean algebra. There are seven basic logic gates:

				AND:	If both inputs are T, then output is T, otherwise F
				OR:	If either input is T, then output is T, otherwise F
				XOR:	If exactly one input is T, then output is T 
				NOT:	Inverts the current input
				NAND:	NOT + AND
				NOR:	NOT + OR
				XNOR:	NOT + XOR

	Integrated:	Integrated circuits are huge arrays of semiconductor devices (transistors, resistors, capacitors, etc) all combined onto a
	Circuits	single semiconductor surface. Each device is made up materials (semiconductor wafers, copper, etc) that all combine into 
			what is called a die.

			IC packages are connected to external circuits through pins (gold wire connectors)
			
